gotta love the classics Waldorf salad
included it's one of my favorites but
I'm always looking for ways to sort of
lighten things up make them a little bit
more clean and healthy so we are going
to sort of revisit the dressing on a
classic Waldorf salad we're going to
start with seriously reducing the
mayonnaise that's step one so use 1/4
cup mayonnaise and this dressing will
make about one cup so this is really
great just to have on hand throughout
the week it's kind of like a really
simple homemade ranch dressing if you're
in Turin
Mike I am 3/4 cup buttermilk love using
buttermilk and dressings because it adds
a really nice tangy creamy texture about
a tablespoon of lemon juice and then we
have a tablespoon each of chopped chives
this is where I think the ranch flavor
sort of comes in and chopped parsley you
could really use any soft tender herb
you happen to have salt and pepper very
important here and this is just great to
go in the fridge salads use it as a dip
with fresh vegetables very versatile
it'll thicken up a little bit as it
chills in the frigerator mmm okay so
dressing is done let's assemble the
salad so Waldorf salad classically is a
lot of mayonnaise and then a lot of
celery apples traditionally walnuts I'm
going to use almonds today and chicken
so we'll shoot for about half of an
apple here the apple adds a really nice
sweet fresh hit nice color good amount
of fiber think forks size we have
everything here so let's assemble our
salad I'm gonna use Bibb lettuce which
is one of my favorites it's a really
nice tender sort of sweet neutral
lettuce nice amount of crunch rich in
dietary fiber
and then we'll add a good handful of
fresh chopped apples celery love the
celery again for its nice sweet fresh
flavor but also really nice crunch
factor here now I have some grilled
chicken add a few slices of that this
will give us that protein boost we need
and of course some crunchy nuts
traditionally the salad was made using
walnuts I really really love the flavor
of toasted almonds with chicken
especially apples seasoned everything
with salt and pepper alright let's get
dressed super colorful always looking
for that in not only just salads but
everything that we try to make here on
eat clean looks delicious right let's
try mmm super crunchy fresh tasty who
doesn't love a salad